
Standard eclipse goals

    eclipse:configure-workspace is used to add the classpath variable M2_REPO to Eclipse which points to your local repository and optional to configure other workspace features.
    eclipse:eclipse generates the Eclipse configuration files.
    eclipse:resolve-workspace-dependencies is used to download all missing M2_REPO classpath variable elements for all projects in a workspace. Used if the Eclipse project configuration files are committed to version control and other users need to resolve new artifacts after an update.
    eclipse:clean is used to delete the files used by the Eclipse IDE.
    
 More: 
    eclipse:clean  Deletes the .project, .classpath, .wtpmodules files and .settings folder used by Eclipse.
    eclipse:configure-workspace  Configures The following Eclipse Workspace features:

    Adds the classpath variable MAVEN_REPO to Eclipse.
    Optionally load Eclipse code style file via a URL.

    eclipse:eclipse Generates the following eclipse configuration files:

    .project and .classpath files
    .setting/org.eclipse.jdt.core.prefs with project specific compiler settings
    various configuration files for WTP (Web Tools Project), if the parameter wtpversion is set to a valid version (WTP configuration is not generated by default)

If this goal is run on a multiproject root, dependencies between modules will be configured as direct project dependencies in Eclipse (unless useProjectReferences is set to false).
    eclipse:help 	Display help information on maven-eclipse-plugin.
Call mvn eclipse:help -Ddetail=true -Dgoal=<goal-name> to display parameter details. 

    eclipse:install-plugins 	Install plugins resolved from the Maven repository system into an Eclipse instance.
    eclipse:myeclipse 	Generates MyEclipse configuration files
    eclipse:myeclipse-clean 	Deletes configuration files used by MyEclipse
    eclipse:rad 	Generates the rad-6 configuration files.
    eclipse:rad-clean 	Deletes the config files used by Rad-6. the files .j2ee and the file .websettings
    eclipse:remove-cache 	Removes the not-available marker files from the repository.
    eclipse:resolve-workspace-dependencies 	For all projects currently part of the workspace, all references to the M2_REPO classpath variable are resolved.

Note: not the projects of the reactor are inspected for unresolved artifacts, but the projects that are part of the workspace.
    eclipse:to-maven 	Add eclipse artifacts from an eclipse installation to the local repo. This mojo automatically analize the eclipse directory, copy plugins jars to the local maven repo, and generates appropriate poms. This is the official central repository builder for Eclipse plugins, so it has the necessary default values. For customized repositories see MakeArtifactsMojo Typical usage: mvn eclipse:to-maven -DdeployTo=maven.org::default::scpexe://repo1.maven.org/home/maven/repository-staging/to-ibiblio/eclipse-staging -DeclipseDir=.
